in fairness I have been to Mars so
there's that you weren't supposed to
mention it though but thank you guys so
much for having me I want to know how
many born entrepreneurs do we have in
the crowd don't be shy about it how many
born entrepreneurs do we have I hear you
all right there we go
so here's the bad news I am NOT a born
entrepreneur and that is very important
for you to know about me I had a what
I'll call a slave's mentality I kept my
head down I did as little work as
possible and I avoided punishment at all
cost that's where my life began thank
you for laughing at my pain
it really was brutal growing up for me I
felt entirely lost that felt entirely
out of control I had visions of what I
wanted my life to become but I had
absolutely no idea how it was ever going
to get there and understanding that and
really believing that but that's where I
started the rest of my journey becomes
that much more interesting to you
because I have some fundamental beliefs
I believe that we're all trapped in the
matrix and the matrix are the limiting
beliefs that you've pulled over your own
eyes they're all a bunch of lies and so
it's really learning how to get yourself
out of that to get rid of the limiting
beliefs so that you can execute against
your dreams but it starts with belief
and humans lead with belief growing up I
knew two things about myself I grew up
in a morbidly obese household that
teetered between blue-collar and
white-collar and I knew in my future two
things would be true one day I would
have six-pack abs and one day I'd be
rich I had absolutely no idea how I was
going to make those come true but I knew
that they were going to be two of the
things that I was going to make come
true in my life now it's important to
understand that quest nutrition is a
company that rose from the ashes of
misery each and every one of you at some
point in your life you are going to hit
rock bottom the question isn't will you
hit rock bottom the question is what are
you going to do with yourself when it
happened and for me I was teaching film
and I met these two buff rich guys and I
thought oh my god
six-pack abs and wealth
I've got to follow these guys it's
literally like I was meant to meet them
and they said Tom you're coming to the
world with your handout and if you want
to control your art if you want to
control your life you've got to get rich
so hey come on we're starting this
technology company we need a copywriter
you'd be perfect for the job so I went
and I did it don't think of yourself as
a copywriter understand this is a
startup you can have any job in this
company that you want you just have to
become the right person for the job so I
took them seriously and I started
working my ass off to get better to
focus on the things that I needed to do
in order to get good to grow and be able
to execute and I got so good that by the
time we sold that company I was the
chief marketing officer and they've
given me 10% of the company just based
on performance so imagine giving
somebody something that amounts to
millions of dollars just based on how
hard they worked that was the kind of
blood sweat and tears that I've put into
it but when I came into it we all
thought it was going to take us about 18
months to sell the company eight and a
half years later in the depths of
despair I realized something had to
change and I went to my partners and I
quit and I said guys here's your equity
back I don't believe I should get
anything I don't plan to cross the
finish line I'm going to go do something
that makes me feel alive and let me tell
you right now I said that from the
position of being in a place where I had
ownership and a company worth millions
of dollars I was making more money than
I've ever made in my life I was standing
in a beautiful conference room
overlooking the Pacific Ocean in the
house of a company that we had built
that was winning awards and I was so
fundamentally unhappy that I finally had
the first of what would become a string
of very profound and important
realizations and that is the game you
think you're playing is money but I
promise the game you're actually playing
is brain chemistry if I gave you four
billion dollars tomorrow but inside you
felt
idle and you felt worthless what would
be the point of the money
conversely if I gave you three dollars
but you felt fulfilled and like you were
contributing not only to yourself to
your family to other people you felt
alive inside what you're doing meant
something to you and you felt that you
had significant what does the money
matter anybody ever read the poem
Richard Cory I read this home and I was
like nine years old and it left a
lasting impression on me and it was
about the best-looking richest guy in
town the guys wanted to be him and the
girls wanted to be with him and the poem
ends with Richard Cory going home and
putting a bullet in his head that's the
human condition how many people have you
met in your life you think they're
spectacular they're amazing and yet
they're so fundamentally unhappy that
they're in the grips of depression we're
living through a mental pandemic right
now it is almost ubiquitous to know
somebody who has depression and/or
anxiety and the reason is people don't
understand the game they're playing the
game you're playing is a game of brain
chemistry its chemicals that flow
through your brain it's a mindset once
you understand that then you can begin
to structure your life in a way that
actually makes sense this is a long-ass
quote but I'm going to read it all to
you because these once you understand
this you will understand everything you
need to know about life to those humans
who are of any concern to me I wish
suffering desolation sickness
ill-treatment indignities I wish that
they should not remain unfamiliar with
the profound self contempt the torture
of self mistrust the wretchedness of the
vanquished I have no pity for them
because I wish them the one thing that
can prove today whether one is worth
anything or not that's one endures
that's life that's the human condition
most people think that Charles Darwin
said that it's the survival of the
fittest Darwin never said that that was
said years after his death what he did
say and burn this into your nervous
system what Darwin said was it's not the
strongest of the species that survives
nor the most intelligent but rather the
most adaptive to change the reason human
beings are the apex predator is because
what we are good at is change what we
are good at is taking a stressor a
stimulus and changing our body look at
the people around you look at homee over
there jack to the nine
Tommy shredded they were not born like
this okay I grew up in a morbidly obese
family I'm not supposed to be lean we
adapt because we force ourselves through
something that is painful and we endure
what was Tommy talking about the
takeaway from Angela Duckworth the book
that really stuck with him many people
start but few endure it's not
interesting whether or not you guys have
a dream I don't care if you have a dream
I am so uninterested in empty dreamers I
can't see straight what I care about do
you have the fortitude to fail and what
do you learn from that failure do you
get back up do you keep going do you
force yourself to recognize that this is
a question of adaptation you simply have
not done to yourself
what you need to do in order to be good
enough to succeed and it really is that
simple once you accept that the thing
that separates you from the rest of the
animal kingdom is an unimaginable
ability to become you have an
unimaginable ability to become something
in 2014 private companies averaged 8%
annual growth after I went into my
partners and I said I quit and I'm going
to go do something that makes me feel
alive they were totally sure
and I got all the way to my house and I
was on the phone with my wife I did it I
had been unhappy for so long and I said
I did it I told him I quit I gave back
the equity Here I am and I'm pulling
into the driveway at my house and my
phone rings and it's my partner they say
come out to dinner with us out of
respect and love I went out to dinner
with them and they said the now-famous
words we could do this without you but
we don't want to and that gave me what I
needed to connect to something other
than money it reminded me of the
Brotherhood it reminded me that I had
fallen in love of these guys with human
beings that there was something more
than money there was something more than
being a clever marketer that I
remembered for a second Who I am the
things that make me unique that I have a
desire to connect that I actually enjoy
communities that I'm not a guy with a
killer instinct I'm not interested in
stepping on my consume my competitors
next that's just not how I'm wired I'm
wired to build something I'm wired to
see people shine I love being other
people win I think it's incredible now
that doesn't mean that I don't want to
win I want to win at the absolute
highest level I want to be the greatest
of all time I want more people to write
about me going to Mars because they're
terrified to try to match my intro I
want that right and I hope each and
every one of you wants to play at that
level I hope each and every one of you
looks at the greatest of all time and
says if I'm willing to break myself and
have to get there I could do it but
being honest with who you are being
honest that if there's something else
that you want to bring to the table that
you find a way to do that and so I said
guys I will come back and work with you
on one condition
I will never prioritize money again my
highest value in business is camaraderie
and at the time that was sacrilege we
had made a pact with each there's three
of us the three of us had made an actual
pact that we would do whatever it took
to make our technology company more
profitable
if that meant skipping a family vacation
if that meant waking up at 2:00 a.m. on
a Saturday to meet and brainstorm we did
it both of those stories are real we did
things like that I would go away with my
wife for Christmas to see her family in
London and I would literally take a
camera with me so I could watch the
company back in LA
I've never switched off I didn't take
days off I was working no matter where I
was I was working seven days a week I
didn't take a real vacation meaning that
I wasn't actually working while we were
on it for six and a half years so if I'm
going to go back to that this is going
to be in service of something that I can
believe in this is going to be something
that makes me feel alive this is going
to be something that I'm passionate
about it's going to be something that I
actually feel like I'm contributing to
the world that I would be willing to do
all of that with a smile on my face and
I said the only question I will ever ask
again in the context of business is this
what would I do and love everyday even
if I was failing if you guys can get on
board with that if we can build
something from a position of wanting to
bring value and not worrying about the
money then we can work together and so
they said that they felt the same way
and we started this crazy protein bar
company called quest nutrition everyone
told us that we were out of our minds
talking to Ben earlier about imagine
you're a 15 year old who wants to play
in the NBA and all you hear all day long
as kids you're never going to make it
and to have the fortitude as a teenager
to push through that and believe in
yourself so what I call the arrogance of
belief I was so on fire with the notion
that now I was going to do something
that I believed in now I could think
about my mom and my sister every day my
mom and my sister both morbidly obese I
knew they were going to die too soon if
I didn't do something about it I
believed it was my problem to solve I
believe there was nothing I couldn't do
if I set my mind to it and armed with
that arms with the passion to know that
I'm showing up every day fighting for my
mom and my sister I'm not thinking about
money I'm not going to make decisions
based on profitability I'm going to make
decisions based on what is metabolically
real what is the actual
answer to the question of how do you end
metabolic disease and I play a game
called no [__] what would it take
no [__] what would it take to end
metabolic disease and the answer is you
have to make food that people choose
based on taste and it happens to be good
for them that's the only way it's going
to happen on a global scale
and so that's what we set out to do but
when you're armed with the notion if I
want to end metabolic disease not I want
to get rich not I want to sell my
company I want to end metabolic disease
and you let that be your driver now you
know what you're wired and we'll get to
that more in a minute by putting that
mindset at the forefront from 2010 to
2013 alone quest grew by fifty seven
thousand percent comparative companies
were growing by eight we grew by fifty
seven thousand I'm telling you right now
saving the world doing the right thing
thinking about your customer wanting
them to win wanting them to shine
wanting great things for your employees
it's big [__] business
[Applause]
at Qwest we made more in a single day
than our previous company made annually
all by putting the customer first all by
saying we're only going to do was
actually metabolically advantageous
because how does it serve me to make a
product that doesn't when my mission in
my opinion was to save my mom and I
would ask myself of every decision tough
decision that we had to make which
decision actually helped save my mom and
then we would make that decision we hit
number two on the Inc 500 list we were
officially a unicorn company we were a
start-up that's bootstraps believe it or
not and made it all the way to a
valuation of over a billion dollars all
right if you guys want to have success
in your life and I don't care what it is
that you're trying to do there's going
to be two things you need to do we're
going to talk about the first one now
which is develop your mindset we'll get
to the second one later which is build
your business but we'll get to that for
now let's just talk about your mind the
most important thing is your mind make
no mistake about that right now the only
thing that is holding you back I promise
you and whatever excuse you're telling
yourself it's [__] the only thing
that's holding you back is the way that
you think about yourself in the world
that's it flat you have not built the
mechanisms in your mind that you need to
free yourself from the matrix and boys
and girls the matrix has you who knows
David Foster Wallace you all have an
assignment to do and by the way if you
don't do this don't think for one second
you actually want to be successful stop
[__] fooling yourself and go do
something easier because this videos
like 18 minutes long it's one of the
most profound things you'll ever watch
David Foster Wallace this is water in
the talk what he makes clear is the fish
is the last one to realize that it's in
water think about it from a human
perspective we had to discover air we
had to discover gravity they're so
ubiquitous
you literally don't see them you take
them for granted as just being there and
that's how people take their belief
system right now you think you're
capable of certain things and incapable
of others and that is your water and
until you can identify it until you can
see that you're telling yourself lies
and they are disempowering lies by the
way because I am NOT some grand fan of
the truth I'm a grand fan of doing and
believing that which moves you towards
your goals do and believe that which
moves you towards your goals that's it
once you put that belief at the core of
your being you will be amazed at what
you're able to accomplish when I say
take the red pill what I'm talking about
is waking up to the way the world really
is the amount of potential that you have
I always say is nearly unlimited but I
only say that so I don't have to get
into stupid arguments with people about
throwing absolutely ridiculous things
out just to try to defeat the notion and
that's somebody who wants me to be wrong
but ask yourselves right now if my
message is you can do anything you set
your mind to without limitation
don't you hope I'm right and even if I'm
wrong
how much farther will you go simply
because you were willing to believe
humans lead with beliefs humans lead
with belief you won't take the first
step down any path unless you believe
you can actually get where you're going
and this is where people get stuck in
the matrix you don't push yourself hard
enough you don't make big enough demands
you think small you dream small you make
small demands of yourself if you want to
see what big demands look like look at
David Goggin anybody know David Goggin
for those of you who don't let me tell
you a quick story David Goggin was a
Navy SEAL he wanted to honor fallen
field to do that he wanted to pick the
hardest thing that he could think of it
was a 135 mile race the person who put
on the race said you can't enter my race
unless you run 100 miles in a 24-hour
period have you the answer was no he
said there's one four days from now
if you can complete four days away 250
pounds in four days if you can complete
a hundred mile race literally running
around a high school track think about
how torturous that would be if you can
complete a hundred miles in 24 hours
then you get to run my race and raise
the funds for your charity
so David decides he's going to run that
race he wasn't prepared he was
overweight by mile 70 he had broken both
of his feet he had shin splints his calf
muscles were beginning to tear off the
bone
he sat into a chair because he literally
had nothing left to give he urinated on
himself blood because he couldn't move
he couldn't get up to go to the restroom
so he defecated on himself and as he's
sitting there in the chair peeing blood
in total agony with feces on his back
the only question he had was what do I
need to do to finish the remaining 30
mile and so we taped his feet so that
they would go numb and he would stop
feeling the pain of the broken feet he
ate something so that he would have the
needed energy to keep going and he got
up and he started walking and he walked
for I don't remember how many miles and
his wife said at this pace you're not
going to finish and so he ran the
remaining 19 miles broken feet stress
fractures additions blood excrement and
he finished on time that's what a human
being is capable of that's what a human
being is capable of we limit ourselves
and it's only up there's nobody else
that's doing it to you you've chosen to
adopt those belief and once you push
yourself outside of that comfort zone
what becomes possible is absolutely
miraculous now I choose to believe that
my potential is limitless and because of
that I've gone from
my couch cushions to find enough change
to put gas in my car that is a true
story
to building a billion-dollar business
all right how do you do it if this is
about building your mindset how to me
it's about mines of gas there is a gap
between who you are now and who you need
to become and that gap is a gap of
skillset plain and simple
remember you're an adaptation machine
your job is to place yourself under
stress and then force yourself to grow
so back to mr. yoke you don't get those
muscles by looking at the weight you get
those muscles by going under the weight
and not stopping when it hurts you stop
when you can no longer recruit the
muscles enough to move the weight that's
when you're done and when you're able to
do that what you're actually doing is
tearing down the muscle fiber and a lot
of people when they begin working out
they don't realize that's actually the
name of the game the name of the game is
to break the muscle down and then the
body comes and builds it back up the
conscious part is tearing it down your
job is to put yourself in stressful
situations your job is to push yourself
to the limit of what you think you're
capable of and then go past that and
when you're able to push yourself past
that when you're able to get into the
Goggins reps as I call it when you're
able to exist in that zone long past
where it started hurting long past when
it got boring long past when you were
terrified that you'd never be able to do
it that's when you'll begin to adapt
because you're telling your body adapt
or die that's how you're going to get
where you want to go now I love the
movie the matrix as was made very clear
in the intro the real question is what
is your kung-fu you've got to figure
that out right this is a past execution
we're talking about right now
path one is about the mindset so what is
your kung-fu my kung-fu is business I
knew that I was going to have to learn
business in order to control the
resources in order to control my art and
this is how you're going to develop your
kung-fu one always be reading the most
important
matica formula you will ever encounter
is right there I I equals IO it stands
for ideas in equal ideas out if you want
to solve a problem in your business
that's become particularly tricky you
need to be taking in a ton of data so
that your unique mind your unique
worldview your unique life having grown
up the way that you grew up the way that
your brain is wired all of it you will
come up with ideas that nobody else is
going to come up with but you first have
to be getting that stimulus now I doubt
I have to over prease that one to a
bunch of people that have come to a
conference like this these are literally
the kinds of ideas you want to be
encountering to open yourself up to
being changed I can't tell you how many
times I've recommended people my list of
books which by the way you can find on
impact Theory calm Tom's reading list it
is a 25 books any human being that wants
to excel should read in order and before
every book say a little prayer and the
prayer goes like this I am open to being
changed fundamentally and for the better
by this book I am open to being changed
fundamentally and for the better from
this book you've got to go into the book
wanting it to be right you've got to go
into the book hoping that it gives you
some piece of knowledge remember
everyone everyone is your superior in
some way and once you learn to check
your ego sit at their feet with absolute
humility and be open to their ideas
especially the one that contradicts what
you believe today then you'll get
somewhere and I've got some really
amazing news for you guys
your current skill set has already taken
you as far as it's going to take you if
you don't put yourself on a path to
learn and very aggressively where you
are now is where you'll be in five years
the key is crossing that chasm of skill
set all right
realize what you believe is a choice
this is something
really hard for people because they
think some things are objectively true
and other things are not and that's
simply a lie and that's why the matrix
is the perfect metaphor think about this
for a second
your brain is locked in total darkness
it never sees light your brain is locked
in total silence it never hears sounds
what your brain does is take stimulus
the agitation of the air and it
transmits it into chemical electrical
signals it does the same with photons
falling on your eye but ultimately this
thing that you're experiencing the
distance that you feel for me it's all
happening in your mind there's actually
two dime-sized blank spots in your field
of vision where the optic nerve connects
to the eye and yet you don't experience
it it's right in the center so why don't
you experience it because your brain is
insanely good at guessing what should be
there and filling it in that's when I
realize my brain is lying to me now it
may have all the best intentions in the
world but make no mistake your brain is
making [__] up and it's making up a lot
of [__] and so you've got to choose what
to believe who here has a negative voice
in their head that tells them to be
careful be space you probably can't do
it this is all going to go wrong now do
you believe that voice to be objectively
true okay so that voice is lying to you
as well now it has great intentions
trying to make sure you don't get eaten
by a line in the bush that doesn't
happen a lot in modern society so maybe
a little less useful in today's day and
age and then the really protective one
is trying to make sure you don't get
ostracized by the group which in years
past would have meant certain death but
now you don't need the group you can
survive just fine
there's a grocery store around every
corner you can get shelter of some kind
it may be lonely as hell but the chances
of you dying from being ostracized are
virtually zero so you've got outdated
software outdated algorithms running in
your mind your job is to develop what I
call an
over watch mechanism the overwatch is
the emotionally sober part of you that
distrust every signal and impulse that
your brain gives you and once you can
get over that in fact there's a great
quote from da Vinci the greatest form of
control is control over oneself so the
reason I love Star Wars is because it's
all about mind control but not mind
control over other people don't worry
about that mind control over yourself
being able to tell yourself these are
not the droids you're looking for
that's when this gets really powerful
alright so believe is a choice we're
going to talk about that more be an
eternal student we've talked about that
and last one become anti fragile all
right we're going to go really deep on
anti fragile so I won't belabor the
point and develop grit alright how do
you become anti fragile this is probably
one of the most important things you
guys need to learn becoming anti fragile
was literally the thing that changed my
life and I remember the day that it
happened I had just started working for
my two partners they were very smart
clearly much smarter than I and I had
built my self-esteem around being smart
and being right and now all of a sudden
I found myself with these two incredible
lines that could process data more
rapidly than I can so I'm not going to
place a value judgment I'm not going to
get into an argument about how valuable
IQ is I will just say that a high IQ in
my opinion means you're processing raw
data faster than somebody else so you
can run through the list of possible
scenarios for instance that could be
very helpful going into any negotiation
you've just thought through all the
possible permutations so they made me
feel badly about myself so as you can
imagine I didn't always want to be
around them and the times that I was
around them I wanted to find some way to
be right and so we were arguing about
something way to do something in the
business and I had an idea and then they
threw out another idea I recognized
immediately that their idea was better
and yet I kept arguing for mine ever
come across somebody who does that
I promise what's happening in that
moment is they're feeling insecure
you've triggered their insecurities and
now they're going to fight for it
because it's very
because if they can at least win that
argument while they may not feel smart
they may get reflected back to them that
they were smarter than you in that
moment they could convince you of
something so I had this moment of crisis
because I actually convinced them and I
convinced them that my way was right
even though there was voice in my head
screaming it's wrong dumbass you know
it's wrong what are you doing it was
insane I was literally heading in this
collision and I couldn't stop myself so
at the end of it I asked myself what do
I really want because I tell people I
want to get rich but my actions say I
want to feel good about myself and I had
a moment of crisis because I realized I
need to feel good about myself
everybody needs self-esteem in fact what
suicide is is when somebody no longer
believes they'll ever feel good about
themselves ever again and if that were
true it's not but if that were true
suicides actually a reasonable option
why would you want to go on living it's
every day you're miserable and there
really is no way out of that so I knew I
couldn't give up my self-esteem I
couldn't accept some weird role where I
just was always the dumbass sitting in
the corner right so in that moment I
realized if I'm actually going to move
towards my goals I've got to pick
something to build my self-esteem around
that's anti fragile now this is a term
that comes from the scene to lab in his
book by the same name and in the book he
points out something that is resilient
something that is strong something that
endures they are all defined ultimately
by their breaking point they still break
they can just take a lot more abuse
before they break anti fragile on the
other hand is something that the more
you attack it the stronger it becomes so
think of it this way if I pride myself
on being smart and you tell me I'm dumb
and you put up a pretty good case for it
that's going to damage my self-esteem my
self-esteem in that situation is very
fragile if on the other hand you tell me
that I'm dumb and I build my self-esteem
around being the learner now I'm going
to say thank you
please tell me in what way that I'm dumb
because you will open my eyes to
something that now I can address and I
can go learn about that thing and I will
have a new skill and I can go out and
push and execute against that skill
that's anti fragile the more you try to
tell me I'm dumb the more areas that you
point out that I'm weak the more things
you tell me I need to learn about my
eyes are open to something that if true
I'm going to go down that path and I'm
going to learn how to do that and that
is absolutely critical all right
identifying as smart as the desert trap
as is the notion of being right one of
the most powerful things that you could
do is become the person that admits that
you're wrong really fast and it's crazy
how much credibility you will earn with
people simply by admitting I was wrong
like 30 seconds ago I was fighting so
hard for something I was really fighting
for my position and then somebody says
something and I realized that's actually
better imagine that you're in the
meeting you're going die hard because
you believe it you should stand up for
what you believe and you should fight
for it but when you find somebody that
when they actually cuz they actually
listen and they hear holy [__] like
that's actually a better idea and they
say it in real time and not just say
it's like oh my god that's a great idea
I'm totally amped I'm on that now I'm
gonna be the energy for that idea
it was crazy when I started doing that
people would actually come to me with
their great ideas because they knew if
it was right I would get so enthusiastic
about it I would give them all the
credit so I did not pride myself on
owning the idea I prided myself on
recognizing the idea and so people would
keep coming to me with these great ideas
because they wanted me to be the energy
and so even though all I would do is try
and point out whose idea it really was
in like every breath that I mentioned
the idea talking about the person who
actually came up with it I would get
credit for it because I was doing
actually moving it forward because at
the end of the day only execution
matters you can build an amazing
reputation for yourself and one of the
best ways that this plays out is that
time when you hold steadfast and you
refuse to bed
people know you're not doing it just to
argue for your own idea because you've
shown a thousand times as soon as
somebody gives you a compelling idea
that you think is better you move on it
and that there's no ego in it alright
how do you develop grit if grit is as
important as we say it is sustained
interest over time that's really what
grit is and a lot of people talk about
in fact the title of my speech is
supposed to be about how you develop a
passion which we will talk about in a
little bit but this is going to be one
of those things when you have passion
one of the things that comes out of that
is you've got the ability to sustain
your interest over time do the hard
thing do the hard thing I can't
emphasize that one enough put yourself
in uncomfortable situations just to find
the mental tactics that you're going to
need to deal with the hard things it's
getting those tactics who knows the
Stanford marshmallow test alright for
those of you that don't this is one of
the most breathtaking examples of the
human condition in the Stanford
marshmallow test they bring in another
five or six years old they bring them in
and the person in the white lab coat
says here's a marshmallow I'm going to
go out of the room for a minute I'll be
back in just a few minutes if you wait
til I come back I'll give you a second
marshmallow so essentially double your
money not bad now what the kid doesn't
know is the researchers never coming
back and all they want to know is how
long will you wait before you eat the
marshmallow some kids have literally
gobbled it up before they even get to
the door other kids are like singing of
themselves putting their head down
getting up dancing around the room some
of them bite like the underside and try
to put it back so you can't see
and here's what's scary
they followed those kids for 25 years
and based solely on the length of time
they were able to wait before they ate
the marshmallow predicted their level of
success in school predicted their level
of success in the job market the people
who waited the longest got into the best
school got the best grades went on to
have the highest paying job just your
ability to delay gratification your
ability to find tactics that worked to
get your mind off something there's no
greater control than control over
oneself anybody here ever done a 3-day
water-only fast not intermittent fasting
three days do it you will learn
something about yourself and it will be
profound and what you're going to learn
is that your body is manipulative and I
did a three day fast just a couple weeks
ago and I had the flu right before so
there were cough drops laying around and
every time I walked by those [__]
cough drops
my brain was like eat one sounds like
[__] like you know I'm fasting
and I literally couldn't believe like
how consistently every time I walk by
those damn cough drops that my body like
gave me this really intense and pull and
that's when I realized like the notion
that there are multiple voices in your
head by the way is very very real and I
will give you one quick example who
knows what the corpus callosum is all
right the corpus callosum is the thick
bit of tissue that connects the left and
right hemisphere of your brain if you
sever that you will get people that have
literal multiple personalities one on
the right one on the left some of the
most intriguing stuff is one of them
will be devoutly religious and the other
will be devoutly atheist in the same
brain and you can talk to them
differently absolutely crazy but the
multiple voices notion is real there are
multiple factions if you will pieces
that your brain is broken up into and by
the way you have the equivalent of a
cat's brain in neurons just in your
digestive tract so the whole notion of
gut instinct think of all the cool [__]
cats can do and you've got that in your
digestive tract neuron it's literally
the same material that your brain is
made out of is in your digestive tract
utterly fascinating so we have all these
competing things that we want but inside
if you think of that overwatch
that one person that's you that's meant
to say I have gold and I'm going to act
in accordance with my goal I'm never
going to sell out what I want most for
what I want right now I wanted a cup
drop right now but I wanted to get on
the other side of the three-day fast and
say I did it and I wanted that more and
in learning what your tools and tactics
are so for me I welcome hunger like an
old friend and I literate people must
think I'm schizophrenic because you'll
walk into the room and I'll literally be
like pinching and poking at my
that going hunger thank you I'm so glad
you made it back it is so good to see
you I'm glad you're here I know that
you're oxidizing my fat I'm very
grateful for that so thank you and in
doing that I reframe it not as something
that is unwanted or painful but it's
something that is doing exactly what I
want it to do and learning those mental
tactics that's the game learning those
mental tactics that's the game that's
how you're going to get good at whatever
it is you want to do if you want to
start a business learning how to deal
with your employees is absolutely
critical but let me tell you right now
if you lash out emotionally your
employees will lose respect for you but
it's just like the cough drop moment now
if somebody had seen me walk by the
cough drop they wouldn't know that I had
it literally had to stop myself lunging
at a cough drop they didn't know that
because I had control of myself I
practiced things like that I do
three-day fast
I do what I call bright-line so I have a
bright line during the week I don't eat
my second meal before 11:30 under any
circumstance my wife one time brought my
food 30 minutes early I was preparing
for an episode it was so sweet of her
but I don't eat before 11:30 under any
circumstance so the foods literally sat
on my lap smelling so good and I was so
hungry and I said hunger thank you so
much for showing up because you're
giving me the opportunity to prove to
myself what a badass I am because I'm
going to smell how delicious you are
knowing my stomach is grumbling and
tying itself in knots because I want to
eat so badly and I'm not going to and in
those moments you are in credibility
with yourself I hate working out
absolutely despise it it's why do it
first thing in the morning and the
reason I hate it the weights are heavy
and your mouth will start burning when
you get to the supposed good rep so
that's just the shitty and backwards
so it is not in any way shape or form
fun for me but I earn credibility with
myself because it is something that I
don't like
I earn credibility with myself showing
up every day and it also reminds me how
much I can transform my body like very
easy for me to show you my before and
after picture I used to be 60 pounds
heavier very easy for me to show you
when I was heavy and then show you
six-pack abs you get it but what you
don't see is the body's just a
reflection of the mind what really
happened was I changed my mind and I had
garnered skills I had garnered tactics
the things that allowed me to not eat
the coffee drop were the things that
allowed me to not eat the things that I
wanted to not have a bowl of ice cream
to not indulge in things that are
wonderfully delicious but instead ask
myself what are my goals and then back
in with my behavior all right
the thing about grit that I really want
to highlight is boredom boredom is the
thing that I think kills most
entrepreneurs it's not lack of funding
it's that 90% of the things you're going
to do suck they're tedious
I actually had to get in a fight with
the IRS to get my ein number for my most
recent company that [__] was boring like
I said I was flying into a rage because
it was wasting so much my time I
literally had to get an advocacy group
to help me go through the process that's
how painful this was and I literally I
remember stopping and telling my team
this is where entrepreneurs fail right
here I think it is so tempting just be
like peace everybody go home I'm not
dealing with this [__] anymore I'm gonna
don't get a job like that would be so
much easier let somebody else deal with
it it's the boredom that arose people
and to get through the boredom you have
to know what it is that you want when
you know what you want then you're going
to have the energy to get through now to
have that energy you're going to need
passion the number one question I get
asked the number one question I get I
get asked this question multiple times a
day
every day from all around the world I've
had people in Australia UK germ
Netherlands Brazil Paraguay I mean
literally everywhere they all want to
know how do I find my passion asking how
you find your passion makes the
assumption that your passion has been
lost somewhere your passion has not been
lost your passion has never been
developed passions are created they're
constructed they're developed and it
starts with interest you want to
identify an area of interest so if
you've ever wondered like oh man that
person is so lucky like how do they get
lucky to find their passion so early and
now they get to do it and live like this
amazing life and you're searching inside
your mind for that thing that's going to
be like a lightning rod that's hidden
under like a lampshade somewhere in your
mind and you're like there it is I
finally found it but it doesn't work
like that it starts with these areas of
interest and if it's something that
you're trying to turn into something
that you can monetize it starts with
ideally overlapping areas of interest so
you've got multiple interest coalescing
and a coalesced is what can money be
made here but even that is not enough
now once you have that you've got to
start going deep into gaining mastery
and it's in the process of gaining
mastery that you're going to find out if
that interest turns into a love then
turns into a passion people who are
passionate are willing to fight through
the boredom
think about a musician if you want to
become the greatest musician of all time
let me tell you how many hours literally
days weeks months years of your life
will be dedicated to playing a scale
dude it it it it it it it it is all day
every day the fundamentals blocking and
tackling and what makes people great and
I know Ben will back me up on this one
what makes the greatest basketball
players they walk out onto the court at
4 a.m. and they say I'm not leaving
until I've made 2,000 shots from the
perimeter simple period it is what it is
they put in the work now they're not
doing it thinking oh my god this is so
much fun
they're thinking I want to win I want to
play at the highest level and I am
willing to break myself in half and this
is the thing that I cannot get
entrepreneurs to understand if you want
to be great I promise you as Tommy said
you already have any what you need which
is the ultimate evolution to prove
ability to adapt so you can change to
get great you can change to become
whatever you need to and if you're
leveraging an earlier win so much the
better if it's something that you have
that little Park of early talent and now
you're just putting work on top of that
fantastic
but it is the people that are willing to
literally break themselves in half to
get the results that they want research
Michael Jordan the absolute symbol of
being the greatest his work ethic is way
more impressive than what he did on the
court if you haven't read Tim grover's
book relentless read it and what he
talks about Michael Jordan has darkness
in him and if you've ever watched his
induction into the Hall of Fame speech
he's late as I said out
Michael Jordan's the dark mother hugger
but as Star Wars taught us there's power
on the dark side and understanding how
to leverage that but what I want you
guys to understand is intensity is
required putting in the work is required
doing more work than anybody else is
required for greatness
there are three things that you can do
work hard work smart and work long hours
most people get real weird when I say
they should work long hours but Tom if
I'm working hard and smart why should I
work long hours I'll tell you why
because I'm also working hard and smart
and I'm working long hours on top of it
so I will beat you every time
right because I'm willing to do all
three but why am I willing to do all
three because I believe in what I'm
doing I know why I'm doing it it isn't
about the money it's about knowing where
you're trying to get to and this is how
you build your business we live in a
very very new world that new world has
been defined by social media for anybody
that in the last year has spoken ill of
social media get rid of that matrix
style beliefs immediately it is the
greatest revolution in business ever it
is the reason that you're going to be
able to build a business without
gatekeepers being able to tell you yes
or no social media has completely
democratized access to consumers think
about that for a second back in the day
you had to pay for radio ads or you had
to be on TV that was it those are your
options and it was so expensive and
that's exactly how the big companies
wanted it because they could keep you
out so you may have a superior product
but the world's never going to know
because they have a way to ice you out
that is gone like really think about
that I'm seeing some young faces in the
crowd you may not realize it did
used to exist it didn't used to exist
you to get to a mass audience
you had to pay hundreds of thousands
millions of dollars potentially to reach
those people and they made you buy in
bulk it's not like you could do one
commercial and see what happens they
made you buy in bulk they made you
commit to big dollars now not anymore
not only that when I was growing up
commercials had to be high quality now
you can film [__] with your iPhone
we like the sub girl and you can sell
product doing it Michelle Phan you guys
know that is built a multi hundred
million dollar Empire by doing vlogging
with her phone on YouTube the world has
changed and thank God it really puts the
power in your hands but you have to
understand exactly what kind of company
it's making room for in a
hyper-connected social world everything
is different and the reason that quest
grew as fast as it did besides us having
Yemeni you guys will get a hear speak
tomorrow the reason that we grew as fast
as we did was because we understood
social media before anybody else in 2009
when everyone was saying that Facebook
is just a distraction how is it ever
going to be good for business and we
were preparing to launch our company we
realized that it was a megaphone and it
gave people the opportunity to comment
on your company within minutes of an
interaction with you to a global
audience and if we put value creation at
the center of our company then we had an
opportunity to get you to say something
powerful and so we said we'll never ask
you to say anything in particular if you
love it then you love it if you hate it
that you hate it but please just say
something and then our job is to make
sure we do the really hard work of
making sure that that product kicked ass
that is actually delivering results that
for people that are trying to lose
facets are going to lose it are going to
be excited that it's delicious
but understanding that generation
Millennials and Gen
raishin z they want impact they have an
inherent distrust of companies so right
now and let me tell you because I've
been through this what's going to happen
first you start is the undiscovered band
and the first people that find you they
love you like no other you can do no
wrong they'll follow you like in the van
on tour they'll stay at the same dirty
filthy motels and you stay at just to
support your product then you start
getting big and everybody's like yeah I
discovered them first I knew these guys
before anybody else and then you get
really big and you're a [__] sellout
and now I don't want to hear your music
that's just played out I'm on to the
next looking for the small guy because
what you fail to take into account is
they want to know what kind of impact
they're going to have by using your
product sometimes that's the product
itself
Quest's having the mission to end
metabolic disease really got people to
understand what we were about as human
beings the fact that we were investing
millions of dollars of our own money
into cancer research because we believe
that it may be of metabolic disease that
let people know who we are who we are as
people me starting to view a show and
stepping out front and coming and giving
talks like this so people can look me in
my eye and ask me questions which by the
way every time I do a talk I will stay
and answer questions until there are no
more questions to answer
I've done it for eight hours straight
before so at the end of this talk even
if they kick us out we'll do it on the
parking lot whatever it takes I will
answer every single question that you
have that's the world that we live in
when you're a servant to your customer
when you understand that that's the
level of obligation that you have is you
want to build a real community that's
the new way of doing business and I now
give people to write to me every day
saying that I've changed their life
imagine building a company and having
people write you from all over the world
that you change their life that their
life it's fundamentally differ
and better because of you and your
products it's an unreal time that we
live in that you can get that kind of
feedback and interaction all right who
knows simon Sinek oh yeah
all right Simonson X wrote a book called
start with why this is one of the most
important things if you're looking to
build a business I promise you and this
is it'll happen tonight even though I'm
going to pee right now I know it's going
to happen tonight one of you is going to
come to me and you're going to start
describing your product you're going to
ask me how you should market it and all
you're going to describe to me are
features and benefit and I'm going to
say no no what's your mission and you're
going to say we want to make computers
faster that's not a mission that's a
feature and benefit what's your mission
we want to empower entrepreneurs with
faster cheaper computers so that even
low-income entrepreneurs can launch
company ok helping low-income
entrepreneurs launch companies that's
the mission the faster computer thing is
a path and understanding the difference
between a path and a mission it's
critical I'll give you an example the
mission at Quest is to end metabolic
disease what if we found that food is
totally irrelevant to that what would we
do why our mission wasn't to make
protein bars our mission was then
metabolic disease so we would change as
we got deeper and deeper into cancer
look like this whole high-protein thing
may actually be really dangerous in a
cancer environment you may have to go
high-fat and so even though everybody
considered us the high-protein low-carb
company we started investing massively
into high fat everybody thought it was
crazy what's going on what are you doing
but we were looking at the data we were
looking at what just metabolic truth was
showing us so don't ever be married to a
path but be deeply convicted about your
mission and choose your mission
carefully it needs to be real and needs
to be something that sits at the heart
of who you are
there's an awesome quote often
attributed to mother Teresa no one will
act for the many but people will act for
the one I showed up every day thinking
about my mom and my sister they were
very real to me there are people that I
know that I love that I see frequently
that I will be mortified to my core if
they were to die so it's very personal
it was very easy to fight and push
because when you know why you're doing
what you're doing when you have your
mission and you are held then to make
that come true when things get boring
when things get tiring you're still
going to do it and when you have that
thing you're able to take advantage of
one of the kingmakers transparencies
there are two new king makers we're
going to talk about both of them the
first one is transparency social media
allows you not only to reach people but
it allows you to reach them in a super
transparent way where you can tell them
who you are
what you're about what your mission is
and let them see your company from
multiple angles and see if you actually
hold to what you say you're about and
don't get me wrong in some ways it's
actually harder to build a business now
because there's no corporate veil right
if you've got a billion dollars to start
a company you were way better off before
with so much easier all you could just
hide things and lie and tell people what
they want to hear and put out marketing
messages anybody the cigarette industry
I mean it's unbelievable how well it
worked and for how long it worked those
days are over
I promise you the bullet has already
been fired that's going to kill the old
way of doing business they are bleeding
to death and they just don't realize it
yet now you're going to have to be
transparent now you're going to have to
tell people what you stand for
and the thing you stand for better be
the creation of value don't think about
profits focus on value the reason you
want to focus on value is it's the only
thing you can sell sustainably you can
trick people with clever marketing don't
get me wrong but it's always going to be
short-term the only thing that lasts is
something that actually adds real
tangible value to somebody's life when
people write in and say
dear quest I've lost 150 pounds using
your products you've changed my life my
wedding day which I never thought would
come is now just two months away I
couldn't be more excited here's the
picture of me and my fiance we would get
stuff like that all the time because we
were focused on making a product that
was actually real finding your passion
for something and building a product
that's better than what anyone else is
doing alright leverage technology to
connect people get really lost like I'm
not a digital native I didn't grow up
with this stuff but once I understood
what it was really allowing me to do in
fact many of you came up and you saw me
sitting out there and it looked like I
was working on my phone but what I was
actually doing is engaging with my
community because if you ever get a
response from me it's actually me so you
can imagine I'm writing and replying to
people a lot but I do that because the
technology is meant to facilitate that
connection once you understand the
building the community is the thing that
gives you power and I'll give you an
example at Qwest we had a decision to
make do we go to retail first which are
known as the traditional kingmakers a
retailer can make a brand if you get
into Walmart you can go from nothing to
a hundred million in like twelve months
same with Costco they can pluck you from
obscurity and make you a big brand
almost overnight so do we do that first
or do we go direct to consumer we
decided to go direct to consumer because
we wanted to build a community we wanted
the power on our side we wanted
customers going into retailers and
saying why don't you carry Quest so we
said no two retailers for a year in fact
we ended up hiring somebody just to say
no to the retailers in a nicer way true
story because we didn't want to burn
that bridge but the contracts they were
sending us were so one-sided so
aggressive in the favor of the retailer
that we never would have been able to be
profitable and that's how Walmart puts
companies out of business that have been
for 115 years they're squeezing your
margins so tightly become so much of
your business that one misstep in like
the custom lives or something which is
what I think killed a little bit blastic
pickle or something they've been around
for over a hundred years gone so you
have to have the power going into the
negotiation and you're living in a time
where you can build a community that
believe passionately in you and your
product and you can mobilize them to go
in stores and start asking for the
product you can either do it region by
region think about that for a second hey
we want to right now today guys it's
going to be Phoenix we want everyone
going into whatever use whatever store
you would sell into we want people going
into the Phoenix area going into the
store and asking for this product and
they'll do it it's absolutely crazy to
get nothing for it other than the pride
of being in that community because
you've done something positive you sold
them something of value that's touching
their lives it's making our life better
you're transparent you're stepping out
front they know who you are they
recognize you they feel like they've
looked you in their eye and you do
things to go above and beyond for them
alright
this is the face of authenticity my
friends this is actually an Instagram
post that my wife and I posted every
year we go sit on Santa's lap and I
thought eh we really do it it's really a
thing for us so share it with the
community and it's stuff like that is
embarrassing that it is it's stuff like
that but lets the community feel like
they know you and in today's world you
need somebody in your company that
people will warm to that they will feel
connected with because what's going to
keep people from losing faith in your
company as you get bigger it's feeling
connected to a person companies aren't
nameless faceless organizations and you
don't want them to feel like it our
customer support department had their
own Instagram just so people could see
the people that they were talking to I
don't market build a community that's
critical how do you build a community it
goes like this at the top there are
thought leaders thought leaders are the
people that when you hear them talk you
don't understand with
talking about neuroscientists all the
people that are publishing papers doing
if they've ever done an abstract then
they are very much a thought leader
influencers in the middle that's who is
listening to the thought leaders they
understand what they're saying but they
have a way of making it accessible to
the masses the mass is ultimately or who
you're trying to sell to but if you're
going to find the people that you need
to find you're going to get to them
through influencers they're called
influencers because a lot of people
listen to them your job is to get a
thousand screaming fans the way that you
do that is by partnering up with
influencers who already have the trust
of those people now most people think of
influencers they think of people like
this but really you should be thinking
of people like this and I'm guessing
most of you don't even know who they are
but I'll give you one random example
this woman here jenna Marbles anybody
know jenna Marbles
all right jenna Marbles has a reach of
over 20 million followers a day a day
that's prime time TV numbers one person
can reach 20 million people a day now
how do you get social influencers how do
you create momentum with them so first
of all you need to identify them you
need to add value to them in their
community and you need to go above and
beyond
so jenna marbles with somebody that we
actually worked with and how did we get
jenna marbles to post a photo of huge
stacks of our bars we sent her knitted
sweaters for her dogs and she loved it
cuz she felt like we understood her that
we've gone above and beyond she felt a
sense of obligation to post that photo
because she was so touched by what we
had done and we did the research to find
out what she really cares about she
loves her dogs always talking about how
they're told because they're so skinny
and they don't have fur and so we knit
some sweaters she loved it and then
staged that whole photo for us took the
picture which was huge for us that
reached such a huge audience and you do
that and start turning those
relationships into partnerships and
begin
to work with them Cassie ho anybody know
Cassie ho so Cassie ho was one of the
first influencers that we started
working with she was a total social
following somewhere in the neighborhood
of 5 million people just absolutely
massive and getting her coming in and
first it was just a paid relationship
but then as she got to know us and know
everybody at the company we actually
turned that into an ongoing relationship
where we've teamed up and partnered now
to the point where my wife and
co-founder and impact theory is actually
creating a podcast with her and just
goes to show that when it's authentic
real connections that you really can
transcend the normal sort of day-to-day
sterile nature of a business
relationship and not being afraid to
recognize that the times really have
changed
following some of your vendors on their
social feeds and getting to know them
can be a really interesting way to spark
interesting conversations to feel more
invested in them as people and I can't
stress that one enough and then at the
end of the day if you're using social
media
you've got to publish you've got to be
creating content who here has a
Instagram account for your work
Instagram account Facebook all of that
okay the only thing I will tell you that
you're doing wrong and I don't even have
to look at your account you don't
publish enough the consistency of
publishing into what it's all about
every time I do an Instagram story I get
30 inbound requests on my team just got
to be putting it out there now it's got
to be value add but you want to be
publishing publishing publishing all
right how do you grow your community so
now you have them how you going to
breathe life into them and really get
them to go somewhere you've got to be
where your customers and fans are I
routinely get asked Tom which platform
should I address and the answer is
wherever your customers are if they're
on all of them you need to be on all of
them and I know that that means it's a
lot more work and it's redundant
and yes snapchat and Instagram stories
are basically the same and maybe
snapchat is going away maybe it's not
but if your fans and customers are there
then that's where you need to be and by
the way this stuff is going to turnover
every two years it's going to be
constantly on the move constantly
different maybe Twitter pulls it off and
they race back to the top maybe Facebook
makes a misstep and they've gone too
heavy in the video and something else
comes up you've got to be there and as
much as you can be an early adopter so
much the better
because it's always the early adopters
that win so keeping your eye on where
the technology is going is absolutely
critical all right be true to the
platform every platform is different
I'll give you one just quick example
even within a platform how different it
can be so first of all do Facebook
versus Instagram on Facebook if I'm
going to do live content I do live
content with three cameras on a
beautiful set and we switch between the
different cameras so that the live feed
feels like a live television show when
we do that on Facebook we get huge
numbers if on Facebook I were just
putting the camera phone on a tripod and
talking to the camera
my numbers will plummet but on Instagram
if I just grab the phone and hold it
right in front of my face and talk to
all the people coming through in the
feed hey Bob hey Sally it's so good to
see you oh my god hey what's up
everybody always got Denmark in the
house do that kind of stuff
my numbers just keep going up up up so
understanding what each platform is
looking for how they want to be talked
to how they want to interact with you
Twitter right one on one communication
rapid real-time news base now Instagram
even within the platform there are
different ways you want to interact so
I'm very formal for the most part in my
main post but my stories are playful and
a little bit more intimate look into my
life and they perform well like that if
I take something that feels right on a
story and I put it in my main feed it
won't perform well if I put something
overly formal in my story then it
doesn't perform well and this comes from
published a lot pay attention look at
the data you've got to be really really
data-driven all right and boost what
works so once you find what's working
then you want to put some ad dollars
behind it
okay and ad dollars gets very tricky to
have to throw a lot of money is
something to get a big result because
what you're going to do is do a bunch of
free stuff and look at what pops and
when something pops and it's
outperforming all your other stuff which
both Facebook and Instagram will tell
you this is performing better than 95%
of your other posts well that's probably
a good candidate to put some money
behind also partnering up with other
people in your space to do crossovers or
trade shout out things like that alright
what if I told you your customers hate
your content hopefully you would believe
me because chances are that they do
because what most people are trying to
do with their contents are trying to
sell don't try to sell with your
contract try to add value your content
in and of itself to be a value add so a
quest a lot of what we do is cooking
cooking with the product sometimes not
cooking with the product but really
trying to think what is the consumer
want what would be value add for them
what are they looking for and those are
the things that are going to allow you
to continue to build that community out
high-value content it's all about value
ads you're living in the era of value
creation so not only does your product
have to be amazing but your actual
marketing in and of itself can't feel
like a commercial it's got to be true to
the brand it's got to be true to the
brand ethos but it has to be in and of
itself interesting and valuable so
rethinking that moving away from
traditional features and benefits buys
it alright I mentioned this earlier only
value is sustainable the only thing that
you're going to be able to sell over
time is that do you guys need to be
having meetings in your company talking
about value what is the value of this ad
what is the value of this marketing what
is the value of this product you have to
know why that thing is valuable that is
absolutely critical and execute at the
end of the day only execution matters
you all have a dream that's why you're
here there's something that you want to
do there's something that you want to
create but at the end of the day the
only thing that matters is your bill
to execute so get really good at that
crossing that chasm of skill set and I
can't say that enough the only thing
that stands between you and executing on
your dreams at the highest level is
skillset it's getting good at something
all right
have very clear goals it always freaks
me out most people stop at the first
sort of vague notion of what they want
to do I'm going to punch myself in the
mouth if somebody comes up to me again
and says I want to help people that's
rad that comes from a beautiful place
like I totally get it but that's like
coming to me and saying I want to win an
Olympic gold medal awesome winter or
summer summer fantastic swimming or
tennis swimming excellent backstroke
freestyle like at some point it's got to
get so specific because you have to know
what skills you need to acquire you have
to work backwards from the goal and the
goal has to be hyper specific so if
boredom is the number one killer of
entrepreneurs that they're not able to
make it through the next one is they
don't have clear goals and the worst
part is they think they do that's the
part that terrifies me the worst part is
they think they do until you know
exactly what your mission is and exactly
what your business model is and what
problem you solve what very concrete
problem that people are freaking out to
have solve until you do that you don't
have the necessary ingredients to build
your business all right don't be
romantic be pragmatic look at the data
the data will tell you what to kill the
data will tell you what's working and
what's not this was the single best
piece of advice that was ever given to
me and I ignored it for three years
I'm so embarrassed by that but I always
make sure any talk I give people hear
this know more about your product
service industry whatever than anyone
else than any one else do you guys have
ever seen my interview show the reason
that it's doing as well as its doing is
I know more about the guests
one guest actually said
I know more about the guests than their
mother I just put in more work than
their mother that's the truth I go out
and I research and I read everything and
I watch every video that I can and so I
know so much about that person I know
I'm going to give a different interview
that anyone has ever given before
because nobody's done that level of
research not only does it blow the guest
away and totally endear them to me but
it gets us to the point where we can
give an interview that has unique values
so know more about what you're doing
than anyone else in the world and grind
baby grind for two years for two years
that's what I look like every day
hairnet lab coat glove put in the
[__] work put in the work and this is
where the rubber meets the road this is
where you're really going to separate
the people that are want renewer from
the people that are real entrepreneurs
you've got to want to grind you've got
to learn to love that you've got to
learn to love to put in the work to be
proud of yourself that you showed up and
put in the work to be proud of yourself
that you taught yourself how to suffer
to be proud of yourself that you're
developing a mindset where you believe I
can do anything I set my mind to and by
the way once you believe that you can do
anything you set your mind to without
limitation how you spend your time
becomes a spiritual consideration how
you spend your time becomes a spiritual
consideration because you could be doing
something if you want to end hunger and
hunger what's stopping you Bill Gates is
actually going to end malaria he's going
to do it because he had the tenacity to
generate the resources and because he
has a mind that allows him to work on
the infrastructure and figure out how to
actually solve that problem do not under
any circumstances make Bill Gates or
anyone else extraordinary to let
yourself off the hook don't [__] do
it don't sell yourself short and this is
where I see people go wrong all the time
they look at somebody who's amazing and
they say well they're just naturally
gifted I could never do that you
couldn't do it because you believe you
can and because you believe you
can you don't start putting in the work
Michael Jordan got cut from his high
school basketball team he wasn't exactly
showing all the promise in the world my
own mother when I left for college
quietly assumed I was going to fail and
didn't admit that for years I showed no
early signs of promise I actually have a
version of this talk where I show photos
from my childhood and people like ya
[__] you just look good and it's
true I used to dress like a clown and I
mean that almost literally so my waist
was size 36 and I wore size 54 pants I
wore literal jester hat I had one of
those big chains that connected to my
belt I had shoulder length hair I did
not exactly look the part and I didn't
take myself seriously it really is a
game of transformation it really is a
game of understanding that you can
become something so even though I didn't
start with the requisite skills even
though I wasn't the born entrepreneur
which is why I started this pale with
that even though I wasn't a born
entrepreneur
I could acquire and did acquire the
skills that were needed to execute it is
a very long road that leads you here
right now most entrepreneurs in the
world are thinking about one thing
winning a championship ring once you
understand the difference between
wanting to win a championship ring and
wanting to be capable of a championship
performance then you'll have the
breakthrough that you need because most
people are okay winning a ring while
sitting on the bench I am NOT that holds
no interest for me I don't want to win
the lottery I don't want something
handed to me that was why when I quit I
gave the equity back I didn't want it if
I didn't do it if I didn't earn it if I
didn't make somebody's life better if I
didn't force myself
to actually develop my potential which
for me the very meaning of life write
this down
the very meaning of life is to find out
how many skills you can acquire that
have utility and then put that utility
to the test in service of something
bigger than yourself I'll say that again
the very purpose of life is to find out
how many skills you can acquire that
have utility and then put that utility
to the test in service of something
bigger than yourself if you do that not
only can you build a big business that
adds tremendous value to people but
you'll have what's called technique you
will have something beautiful it skills
that you have fought hard for that can
help someone else and that my friends is
fulfillment and going back to the game
that you're actually playing which is
brain chemistry it is not money
it is not accolade it is not number one
on the Inc 500 list the game that you're
playing is being proud of yourself the
game you're playing is being able to
look yourself in the eye and go damn you
left it on the field you really played
to your full potential and you're
prepared to go back to the gym to get
better when you know that about yourself
everything changes like people always
ask me Tom he works so much when you
going to take a day off I'm like I'll
take a day off whenever I want one I've
earned it I'm not conflicted I know how
much I work but I didn't take a day off
for six and a half years at the
beginning of my journey because I
believed I'd earned it
some part of me was guilty because I was
still fighting my own mindset I wasn't
always doing the things that I should be
doing once you get to the point where
you know you leave it out on the field
every day take a vacation whenever you
want it won't even be a second thought
for you this is the most fundamental
belief that I have I've hired drug
dealers I've hired former gang members
at one point the staff at Quest
literally I had blood and Crips working
the same production line the true story
because I told the neighborhood I don't
care who you are all I want to know who
do you want to be and what's the price
you're willing to pay to get there boys
and girls I promise you once you answer
that question for yourself once you know
exactly who you want to become and
you're willing to pay a price that is
higher than anyone else is willing to
pay you will win that's the only path to
success think about what you know about
humans your job in building a company is
to get people to feel so bonded to you
so bonded to your company that you
dazzle them and have you ever dazzled
somebody by lowering their expectations
and then comfortably delivering more the
phrase that makes me want to break
something under-promise and over-deliver
[__] that if you tell me you want to
under promise and over deliver you're
dead to me I don't want to talk to you
because I know what you're trying to do
is manage my expectations you are not
trying to be the greatest of all time
you are not trying to be capable of the
extraordinary you will happily win a
championship ring while sitting on the
bench I'm not looking for that what I'm
looking for is somebody who knows that
they want to become and they're willing
to pay an extraordinary price to become
that because all that matters to them is
becoming capable of the extraordinary
and when you get to that point the only
way he will know how to act is the set
the bar ridiculously high so high you're
almost embarrassed to say it out loud
and then my friends you're going to
surpass all expectations thank
[Applause]